1.

Q: What data types do each of these values represent?

A. "A Clockwork Orange" - String
B. 42 - Integer
C. 09/02/1945 - Date
D. 98.7 - float
E. $15.99 - money

2. 

Q: Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A: A text file would be used when data is smaller and easier to manage. A database would come into the picture when the data is too large for a text file and needs a larger more efficient platform to manage it in.

3. 

Q: Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

A: SQL uses a single = sign as an equal to comparison operator (vs two).

4. 

Q: In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A: A database utilizes cells, columns, rows, and tables to piece together and structure data to be utilized by programs.

5. 

Q: Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A: A table is a collection of values stored in rows and columns in a database. A row is the horizontal lines with values in the cells organized by the columns. The columns provide the categories to enter the rows of line items into the table. The values are the data to be organized by the database table that populate the cells within.

6. 

Q: List three data types that can be used in a table.

A: string, integer, object

7. 1.English Query -  Select the date and the amount from the payments table.
    Results would be the date and amount columns with all of the rows

   2. English Query - Select the amount column from the payment table if the amount is over 500.

Result would be the amount column filtered down to only show the items with an amount over 500.

3. English Query - Select all of the columns from the payments table where the payee is Mega foods.

Results would be all of the columns from the payments table where the payee is equal to Mega Foods.

8.

1. Select email, signup

   From users

   Where user = 'DeAndre Data';

Output = 'datad@comcast.net', '2008-01-20'

2. Select userid

   From users

   Where email = 'alesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

Output = 1

3. Select *

   From users

   Where userid = 4;

Output =  ( 4,       'Brandy Boolean',    'bboolean@nasa.gov',            '1999-10-15');





